W. Ego |
Egoist / Egotist - Me Only
 Egocentric - All About Me - extreme Egoist
 Ego maniac - Extreme Ego centric ..

W. Alter |
E. OtherAlternate
 Altercation - fight with words - extreme quarrel
 Alteration
 Alter ego - Mirror Image
W. Verto |
To turn Introvert
 Extrovert
 Ambivert ..

W. Misein |
To hate Misanthrope - To hate mankind ( Anthropos- mankind)
Misogynist To hate Women (gyne - woman)
Misogamist - To hate Marriage ( gamos - marriage )
Gamos - MarriageMonogamy , bigam, polygamy - more than one marriage
PolyandryMore than one Husband
Left handSinister (L)- evil o threatening
gauche (F)- Mentally Unskillful
Right Hand  Droit (F) - adroitness- Mentally skillful
Asketes - Monk  Ascetic -To Live like a monk
W. Obstetrix | Mid Wife - To stand Obstetrician - the one who aids in the delivery of the infant ..

W. Paidos |  Child  Paediatrician - One who looks after the health of the kids
W. Iatreia |Medical Healing 
W. Agogos |  Leading Pedagogy - methods of pinciples of teaching 
 Pedagogue - A teacher to the kids
 Demagogue - A leader who leads people to false belief to get to the power
W. Dermas | Skindermatologist
 Taxidermist - One who stuffs mounts the skins of animals 
 Pachyderm - An animal with unusually thick hair
 Dermatitis - any inflammation or irritation or infection
W. Hypos | UnderHypodermic - needle penetrates under the skin 
W. Epi |  Epidermis : the outermost layer of the skin
W. Opthalmos(G)or oculus (L) |: Eye Ocular - Eye Adj
 Monocle - A lens for the single Eye ( like old movies )
 Inoculate - ( against a disease ) ...a hold is made to inject serum
 Opthalmologist - Eye Specialist
 Optometrist - measures visions and prescribes galsses
 Optician - Make it Dispense glasses and Contact Lenses
W. Metron | Measurement thermometer
 Barometer - Measures atmosphic pressure 
 Sphygmomanometer - measures blood pressure 
 Metric system - Decimal system of weights and measures 
W. Opsis or optikos | Vision or sight  

W. Orthos | Straight or correct orthopedist
W. Odontos | Teeth orthodontics - Straightening Teeth
 Periodontist - Peri + odontos - Gun Specialist
 Endodontis- endon +odontos - specialist in the work of pulp of the tooth and in root canal therapy
 Exodontist - ex + odontos - dealing with outer parts of teeth
W. Kardia | Heart  Cardiology - the science of Heart
 Cardiac Condition - Some Malfunctio of the heart
 Cardiogram - electronically produced record of heart beat
 Cardio graph - Th e Instrument that produces such record 
 Endon : Within  
 Exo : outer 
 Peri : Surrounding  
 logos - Science  
 Algos - Pain 
W. Pathos | Suffering or Disease 
  Pathological : deceased
 Pathologist : Who Examines Tissues
W. Pathos | Also Feeling
 Sympathetic : feeling witn someone 
 Antipathy : Strong Dislike or Hostility to People
 Apathetic : No feeling at all to anything 
 Empathy : understanding and Sharing one's feelings 
 Telepathy : distant Communication
Suffix - osisA abnormal or diseased condition 
Neuron - Nerve  Neurology - science of nerves
 Neuralgia - The acute pain pain along the nerves and their branches
 Neuritis - Inflammation of nerves
 Neurosis - execesissive us eif energy for unproductive purpose so that the personality development is hindered
 Neurotic - adj of neurosis
W. Psyche |  Spirit or Mind  Psychosis - Mental Disorder
 Psychotic - has lost contact with Reality
 Psychiatrist -( Psyche + iatreia ) Mind Healer
 Psychic - Mental , Beyond Logic
 Psychopathy - severe Mental Disorder ( psyche + pathos) also social path as threat to society
 Psychoanalasis : probe of unconscious : history of a person 
 Psychosomatic : Emotional Influence of mind over body 
 Psychogenic :  of Psychic origin
 Psychotherapy : the treatment of psychogenic disorder 
W. Geras |  Old Age  Geriatrics -( geras - iatreia)the specialty dealing with medical needs of the elderly 
W. Soma | Body 
W. Genesis | Birth or origin
Getenics : Transmission of hereditary characteristics from parents to offspring 
Gene :A particle carried on the chromosome of the germ cell containing  a hereditary characteristic
Genealogy : Study of Family trees or ancestral origins
Genital : sexual organs involved in conception or the birth
Congenital : from or during birth 

W. Osteon | BoneOsteopath - Osteon + Pathos - suffering from bones 
W. Cheir | Hand

W. Pons or podos or Pedis | footChiropractor - Healing with the hands 
 Chiropodist - dealings with calloused hands and feet
 Chirography - An expert in writing by hand 
 Chiromancy - foretelling future by observing hand - Also Podiatrist
 Pedastal , pedal,pedestrian
 Octopus - octa + podos
 Platypus - platys + pus - flat foot water mammal
 Podium - a Speakers platform -  A place for foot
 Tripod
Suffix - Mancy : prediction orr Foretelling 
Platys - Broad or Flat  
W. Graphein | To write Graphologist - Analyses Handwriting
 Chirographer - Hand Written Art
 Calligrapher - kallas + ghaphein - Beautiful Art by Hand 
 Cacogharpher - kakos + Graphein - Worse Hand Writing or art
 Cardiograph - Heart Writer
 Photographer -  written by light 
 Phone graph - sound writer 
 Telegraph - Distance writer
 Bio graph - life writing
 
 
 
W. Kallos | Beauty Callipygian - one with shaped rear
W. Kakos | Harsh
W. Pyge | buttocks 
W. Senex | Old Senile - Mental or Emotional detiorition thats indicated old age
 Senescent - Aging or Growing Old 
 Senior , senate - Older...wiser of all
Suffix - Escent : Growing or Becoming

W. Anthrospos | Mankind 
 Anthropology : Anthros + Logos : study of Mankind 
W. Nomos | Arrangement, Law Or Order  
  Astronomer: A person interested in the arrangement of stars and other celestial bodies  
 
 Astronomical : Reference to Tremandoulsly large figure
 Autonomous : Making ones own laws and not needing to answer to anyone 
 Metronome - An Instruments for piano playing guidance 
W. Astron | StarAstrology: Aster + Logos - The science of studying the influence of planters and starts on human events 
 Astronaut : Sailor among the stars 
W. Nautes | Sailor  Nautical : Relating to sailing and ships
 Nausea - sea sickness
W. Autos | Self Autobiography: The story of one's life written by himself 
 Autopsy : Investigation to find out the details of death
W. Botane | Plant  Botanical : Relating to Plant
W. Zoion | AnimaZoology : Study of Animals
 Zoo
 Zodiac ; the Diagram of suns Moons and the planets
W. Geo | Earth Geology : Study of Earth
 Geometry
 Geography : The writing about the Mapping or the earth
 
 
W. Ec or ex | Out  
W. En | In Insect : In + sectus
 Entomology : The Study of Insects
W. Epi | On or upon Epitome : Condensed version of the language
W. Tome |  a cutting 
W. Also Cimbining with ec  Tonsillectomy | Removal of Tonsils
 Appendectomy : Removal of Appendix
 Hysterectomy - the uterus
 Mastectomy - Removal of Breast
 Prostatectomy : Removal of the prostate
W. Kentron ( G) centrum ( L) |  Centre  
  Eccentric : Out of the Centre - Deviating from the normal behavior
W. Ana | up 
 Anatomy : cutting up of plant or animal for its bodily structure 
W. Dicha | Two Dichotomy : dicho + tome - reference to two entirely different things
W. Philein |To Love Philology ; The Love of Words
 Linguistics : The science of words
 Philanthropy :  The Love of Mankind 
 Philander : To Play around sexually
 Philosophy : The Love Of Wisdom 
 Philharmonic : The Love of Music
 Aphrodisiac : Cause of Sexual Desire( Aphrodite : Greek Goddess of Love &Beauty)
 Bibliophile : A Collector of Books
 Anglophile : The Love of British People and their culture
W. Socius | Companion  Sociologist : The study of People and Their living
 Antisocial : Dislikes People and Detrimental to society
 Asocial : Self-centered ,feeling completely indifferent to the interests of the society
W. Semantics | The Study of words  the psychological effects of the words on human behaviour

W. Notus | Knownnotorious : widely reputed for bad
W. summus | Highest Summit : Th top of the mountain
 Consummate:To reach the highest point if perfection
W. Corrigo | To correct or straight Incorrigible : Impossibke to correct or reform
W. Vetus | Old Inveterate : Grown Old Habits or Deep Rooted
 Veteran : experienced and skilled 
W. Chronos | Time  Chronic : Again and again
 Anachronism : Out of date 
 Chronological : Order based on Time
 Chroinolgy : Science of time order and The accurate dating of events
 Chronometer : Highly Accurate time Machine
 Synchronize : to time together 
Scio/ Sciens : Knowing  Conscience : Knowledge with a moral sense of what is right or wrong 
 Unconscionable : having no 
Conscience
 W. Omniscient | All Knowing ..Possession ofinfinite knowledge
 Prescient : Knowing Before Events happen
 nescient : Not Knowing. ..Ignorant
Grex/ Gregis : Flock or Herd Gregarious : Enjoying Championships ...and happiest When Surrounded by people 
 Egregious : So Vicious that It stands out.  ( Of the flock )..( e -- ex -- out)
 Congregation: con + Greg : To assemble ..also for religious purposes
 Segregation: To Dissemble ...
 Aggregate: Too add Things or people 
W. Par | Equal : Aequus Parity : Equality
 Disparity : Dis + Parity :  Inequality, Difference
 Peer : Of Equal Range , Age etc
 Desperate , Compare, Pair ,
 Equivocal : Saying Yes and No with same Voice Deliberately ( Vocis : Voice )

W. Ambiguous | Open To Misinterpretation , Not Deliberate ( Ambi - Meaning both the ways )
 Unequivocal : Clear 
 Double Entendre : Double meaning -one being Sexual 
 Equity : stocks , Equal Treatment 
 inequity : Injustice , Unfairness
 Equinox : A day With Equal Day and Night (Mar 21 & Step 21 or 22)
 Equanimity: Equal Mind ( Animus): Maintaining Compusure 
 Equability :Close syn of Equanimity adj- Equable
 Equilibrium : Physical Balance between opposed forces Equal Weight ( Libra : Weight  , Balance , Pound )
 Eqilibrist : A professional Tightrope Walker
 Equater : Divides the earth into two equal parts
 Equilateral : Same side both ways ( Latus, lareris : Side )]])
 Iniquity : Sinfulness , Wickedness
W. Equine | Horse & Like A horse as in appearence or description Equestrian :some one on a horse; Also ( adj) refer to horseback riding ( Equus : Horse )
W. Vox , Vocis | Voice  Equivocal
 Vocal: Expree yourself with freely
 Vocalize : To give voice to
 Vocals : Voice parts of the voice

W. Titillate | To TickleTo Excite sensitively , To be lightly sexual stimulation
W. Praise  Compliment | Pleasant and courteous expression of praise 
 Flattery : Stringer than a compliment and often insincere
 Adulation : Flattery and ridiculous worship
W. Scribo , Scriptus | To write Proscribe : To Prohibit from having eating etc
 Describe : De ( Down ) + Scribe : To write down about 
 Manuscript : Manus + scriptus : something hand written
 Scriptures : Holy Writings 
 Inscribe : To write in or into a book or metal
 Postscript : Written after the main script is finished ( Post - Later ) 
 Circumscription : circum ( Around ) + Scribo : to write around ; to be restricted in their
W. Via | Road  Obvious : Clear and Not hidden ( Like in the middle of the road )
 Obviate : To prevent the unnecessary by taking effective steps
 Trivial : small Trivialities
W. Militis |(L) Soldier or Fighting man Militate against: To deter ( Fight against ) the success, Works to your disadvantage
 Militant : One who works for Reforms 
W. Malus | (L) Bad , Evil  To Malign : To speak evil about , Slander , Defame 
 Malign (adj) - Bad , harmful , evil 
 Malignant : One showing deep hatred 
 Malediction :  a curse , an evil saying ( L : Dico , Dictus - To say or to tell)
 Malevolent : wishing evil or harm ( L : Volo - To wish )
 Maleficent : To do or cause  Harm or hurt ( L - facio , factus : To do or make )
 Malefactor : wrongdoer , Criminal 
French from of malus is mal
W. Mal |  ( F)Bad Maladroit : Clumsy , unskillful ,having a bad right hand 
 Malaise : An Indefinite feeling of bodily discomfort, Mild Illness
 Malicious: having or showing hatred and a desire to harm sb or hurt their feelings
 Malice : a feeling of hatred for sb that causes a desire to harm them
 Malady : A serious Problem or illness
 Maladjusted :having mental and emotional problems that lead to unacceptable behaviour 
 Malcontent : a person who is not satisfied with a situation and who complains about it, or causes trouble in order to change it
 Malpractice : careless, wrong or illegal behaviour while in a professional job
 Malnutrition : a poor condition of health caused by a lack of food or a lack of the right type of food

W. Bonus |(L) Good...
 Bene  Benign / Benignant : Kindly , Not Harmful , Good Natured Respective Nouns : Bingnity  and Binignancy 
 Benediction : Blessing , Good saying 
 Beneficent : bene + Fy : doing good
 Benefactor : Doing the good or help 
Benefaction : The good or help
Beneficiary : The Recipient of Help
 Benefit / Beneficial : bene + Fy : To do the good
 Benevolent : bene + Volo : Wishing one well
 Bonbon : A sweet
W. Fides | Faithir or Trust 
Bona fide : In good Faith , Without deception
 Infidel : One who has no religion or faith
 Infidelity : unfaithfulness
W. Dico or Dictus | To say , Tell  Dictate ,Dictator , Dictation ,Dictatorial ,Pridict
 Contradict : To make am opposed statement (Contra : Against , Opposite )
 Addiction : Ad (to)+ diction (Say) : Saying yes to habit 
W. Placate | To please , To pacify Turn hostile attitude to friendly
 Implacable : opp to Placable, ; : Unyielding to  pity ( No mercy )
 Placid : calm, Serene, Undisturbed; calm Waters of lake and sea
 Complacent : Satisfied and unwilling to progress
Types of Talking
W. Taceo ( L ) |  To be Selient  Taciturn : Silent , Disinclining to Conversation
 Reticent : A persnn who prefers  to keep silent 
 Tacit : unspoken but Understood
W. Loquor ( L ) |  Loquacious : Talkative
 Soliloquy : A speech to oneself or when alone 
 Ventriloquism : The listen thinks the sound is coming from the source other than the person speaking
 Colloquial : Informal way of Conversation
 Circumlocution : Taking in indirect way
 Magniloquence(or)Grandiloquence : Grandiose and Pompous language with large and impressive words like flowery 
 
W. Laconia | Ancient Sparta where people use few words and mean muchLaconic : Using few words and saying much
W. Cogence | (admiring)..clear and Logical
W. Eloquent | Fluent aristic and Persuasive ( Also Emotional whereas cogent is Logical)
W. Verbose  | Overabundant use of words ( From Word Verbum meaning word )
W. Voluble |To speak Rapidly , Fluently and glibly ( from Lolvo - To roll out : Words rolling out fluently )
W. Garrulous |  To chat for long and meaning too little ( From garrio - To chat )

W. Magnus | Large  Magnanimous : big Hearted , Generous , Forgiving
 Magnate : A Power of Great influence or power
 Magnify :  To make larger 
 Magnificent : magnus + fic from facio : To make big
 Magnitude : Of big
 Magnum : A large Bottle
 Magnum Opus : The gtreast work , Masterpiece 
W. Opus | (L) Work ( Plural Opus - Opera : a number of a works (drama, Singing)
W. Verbum |Word Verbatim : exactly as spoken or Written - Word to Word
 Verbal : oral or Spoken 
 Verbiage : An excess of words or style of using words 
W. Volvo , Volutes | To rollRevolve , Revolution ,Involve ,Evolve 
W. Venter , ventris | Belly Ventriloquism : The listen thinks the sound is coming from the source other than the person speaking
 The ventral side : The frontal or anterior side
 Ventricles  Hallow organ or cavities - two Chambers of the heart or for chambes of the brain 
 The ventricles of the heart : The lower chambers that receive blood from the upper chambers known as artia , or auricles
 Auricles : Auris ( L) - Ear : Receive blood from the veins and send into ventricles which furtgrt pump blood into arteries 
 Avuncular :Aji form of Uncle : kind , protective and giving helpful advice 
W. Dorsum( L) | The back side  Endorse : To sign on the back ( Cheque ) b To back a plan to express approval 
W. Fero | To bear or carry Vociferous : Vox ( Voice ) + Fero : carrying a lot of voice ; loud and noisy
W. Somnus | Sleep  Somniferious : Carrying sleep : Induicing sleep 
 Soporific : style of lecture speaker etc that puts audience to sleep : Also Somnific
 Insomnia : inability to sleep when requird
 Somnolent : sleepy or drowsy
 Somniloquent : somnus ( sleep )+ loquus ( speech) One who speakers in sleep 
W. Ambulo | To Walk Somnambulism : somnus +ambulo :walking in ones sleep
 Ambulatory : a patient who is finally well enough to get oit of bed walk again 
 Perambulator : Short form - Pram : baby carriage vehicle 
 Amble : To walk aimlessly ( Syn : Stroll )
 Preamble : Something that walks before; An introduction to the speech ; An event Thais is introductory to the another 
 Noctambulist : Walks at night
 Circumambulating : walking around ; Also Circumnavigate
W. Articulus ( L) | A joint Articulate : the ability to join words easily 
 Inarticulate : troilble jpimg words together 
W. Banal |  Very ordinary and lacking creativity and therefore not interesting

W. Martinet |  From General who was very strict  Highly Disciplined , In the derogatory( Insulting) sense 
W. Phanein | To show
 Sycophant : One who flatters rich to get benefit 
 To curry the favor of sb: to get sb like it support by praising them : Also Ingrantiating

 Diaphanous : dia ( Through ) + Phanein : To see through ; transparent , Such cloths etc  but not glass
W. Dilettante | (I) To delight  Dilettante :one who does an activity for just creative urge , not for money ; not an expert ; part time dabbling ( doing something not seriously )
 Tyro : Not as skilled as dilettante but quite ambitious 
 Virtuoso : Extremely skillful
W. Vir (L)  | Man  Virago : a woman but having a personlaoty stereotypically masculine - Loud mouthed  aggressive 
 Termagant : A very strict woman who triess to tell people what to do
W. Pater, Patris (L) | Father
 Patriotic : fatherland : proud of one's own country
 Patronymic : A name formed on the father's name ( Onyma( G) : Name) In synonym , Antonym , Homonym ( Similarim sound )
 Patrimony :Pater + mony : The Money from one's father ; also Inheretence
 Paternity : Fatherhood 
 Patriarch : A venerable ( Admirable ) father like old man ; ( Archein : To rule )
W. Monarch | Rule by one person
 Patron: One who helps people by giving money
 Patricina : One who is connected high social class ; 
W. Plebeian | One who is connected to ordinary people
 Patronize : To help people by giving money
 Paterfamilias : The head of the family
 Padre : A preist 
W. Mater or Matris | Mother Maternal : Motherly
 Maternity : Motherhood
 Matriarch : The mother ruler ; A mother who controls large household ( Archein : The Ruling )
 Matron : A old married woman 
 Alma mater : School or collage attended in the past ; Like a intellectual mother 
 Matrimony : marriage 
 Matronymic : Named after mother  
W. Frater or fratris | (L)Brother  To fraternize : To have a brotherly relationship
 Fraternal : Brotherly 
 Fraternity : A Brotherhood ; A group of people of similar characteristics or profession
W. Soror |(L) SisterSorority : Women's organization
W. Uxor(L) | Wife  Uxorious : A man who tries to smbmit to every demand of wife
W. penhecked | A husband Dominated by wife , because of a weakness
 Uxorial : Connected with a wife 
W. Maritius | (L)HusbandMarital : Relating to wed relationship
 Extramarital , Premarital 

W. Rex or Regis |(L) : King From Tyrannosaurs Rax - King of dinosaurs 
 Regal : king like , Grand , Magnificent 
 Regalia : Impressive Dressing or decorations
W. Mania (G) | Madness

W. Incendo or incensus (L) |  - To start fire

W. Ardo, Ardus | To burn
 Monomania : Abnotmam obsession to one single thing 
 Dipsomania : Dipsa (G) ( Thirst ) + Mania : Alcoholic obsession
 Kleptomania : klepte (G) (Thief) : Morbid Compulsion to steal 
W. Morbid | Expressing strong interest in the unpleasant things
 Pyromania : Morbid Compulsion to start fire (Pyros ( G) - Fire ), For thrill
W. Incendiarism | To start fire for taking revenge ( Incendo or incensus (L) - To start fire )

W. Arson | To set fire international for economic gain ( Ardo or arsus ( L) ; To burn )
 Megalomania : Morbid delusions of power , Impirtance etc 
 Nymphomania : Morbid or uncontrollable desire for sex on the part of female ( Nymphe ( G): Bride )
 satyromania :Morbid or uncontrollable desire for sex on the part of male ( Satyor ( G ) : Satyr- A god notorious fro lechery ) - Also called as Satyriasis

 Incendiary statement ,speech etc : One that excites people or galvanizes them into action
W. Incense | Sending off pkeasnt smell upm burning
W. To Incence | To anger greatly, (Burn up)
 Ardent : Burning with zeal ambition 
 Ardour : Noun form of Ardent : Burning passion  zeal
W. Phobia | Morbid fear Claustrophobia : Morbid Fear of Enclosed spaces o or of being hemmed in ( Not able to move ) ( Claustrum (G) : Enclosed space )
 Agoraphobia : Morbid fear of open space , The reverse of claustrophobia (Agora (G): Market Place
 Acrophobia : Morbid fear of heights (Akros (G): Highest )
W. Icanoclast | Eikon (G) ( Religious Image) + klaein (Break) : one who sneers at reliogiuos beliefs and customs
W. Sneer at | To show disrespect by way of expression or speaking
W. Theo's | God Theism : Belief that God exists
 Atheism : Belieft that god doesn't exist
 agnosticism : A philosophy that's god existence can't be proved ( Gntosts(G) : Knowing )
 Monotheism : Belief in one god
 Polytheism : Beleif in many god
 Pantheism : Belief that God isnt in mans image, But is a combination of all forces of the universe ( Pan : All)
 Theology: The study of god and religion
W. Gnostos ( G) |  Known Diagnosis : Dia (Through ) + Gnostos : knowing through examination
 Prognosis : Prediction to the ckhrsr of a disease
W. Lecheir ( F) | To lick
W. Starting with letter l | Sound formed with tongue ,supposedly seat of sensation Lecher : A person who is obsessed with sex
 Lebidinous : Lascivious : Showing or feeling strong sexual feelings
 Lubricious : showing great interest in the sex that's not acceptable
 Licentious : behaving in away that is sexualy immoral
 Lewd : Sexually offensive
 Lust: Strong sexual desire without love
 Prurient : One who is filled with great secual curiosity (Prurio (L) : To itch, to long for )
W. Hypos | (G) : Under  Hypochondria: A dilusional morbid worry of ones own health  ( Chondros: The cartilage of the breas bone ( Old brief that Morbid anxiety rose from the abdomen which is under the breath bone )
 Hypodermic needle penetrates under the skin
 Hypothyroidism : Under working of the thyroid gland 
 Hypotension : Abnormally low blood pressure
 Hypoglycemia : Low Blood Sugar (Glykys : Sweet + haima : Blood)
W. Hyper (G) | Over Hypercriticism : Exceive fault finding 
 Hyperthyroidism : Over working of the thyroid gland 
 Hypertension : over working og the thyroid gland 
 Hyperacidity: 
 Hyperactive: active than Normal
 Hypersensitivity : Very sensitive ( To Criticism) ; Sensitoev to medicines 
 Hyperglycemia : Excessive blood sugar
W. Metra (G) | Uterus ( From Meter) Metritis : Inflammation of the uterus
 Metralgia : Uterine pain
 Endometriosis : Abnormal condition of the uterus ( Endo : Within ; metra : Uterus ; -Osis : Abnormal condition

W. Haima | BloodHemorrhage : Excessive blood Flow
 Aneamia : No Blood , Pathological reduction of red blood cells
 hematology : Science of blood
 Hemophilia : love of blood ,  a hereditary condition where blood clots slowly
 Haemoglobin: Blood Globules : Red colourimh matter of the reb blood corpuscles 

W. Vivo | To Live
 Viva : Life (L) Convivial : Friendly , Happy and Gregarious ( From Latin : Convivium : Feast) n. Conviviality
 Vivacious : Fill of joy and animated
 Vivid  : Pooseesing the fressness of life 
 Revive : Bring back to life
 Vivesection : Process of experimenting on live animals to discover cause of disease( Sect (L) v To cut)
 Viviparous : Producing live babies 
W. Oviparous | Producing young from egg 
(Ovum : Egg ; Pareto : To give birth)
 Vital : Essential to life  ;of crucial importance
 Vitalize : To give life to
 Revitalize : to make something more stronger and healthy
 Vitamin : one of the nutritional elements 
 Joie de vivire : joy of living
 Ennui : Opp of above : Feeling of boredom or discontent
 Bon Vivant : A person of High status , Rich life 
 Vivarium : Artificial environment for animals and plants to live
 Solarium : Where one takes e sun bath
 Aquarium : a place for water
W. Foodies Gourmand |One who enjoys food with pleasure 
 Gurmandise : To eat alot
 Gourmet : One who knows about food and chooses them joy
 Glutton : One who eats A lot and bad eating habits ; Also instaibke apetetite for something
Gourmet is Complimentary where as glutton in derogatory
IndefatigableUnable to be fatigued
W. Credo(L) |  To believe Ingenuous : Frnak , Don't conceal ; n. Ingenuousness
W. Disingenuous | Dishonest and cunning  n. Ingenuity
 Ingenious : shrewd and clever
 Naive :Inexperience and unsophisticated
 Credulous : Willing to beleiece ebrythimg ; Not suspicious; n.credulity
W. Incredulous | An Attitide of scepticism. Incredulity
 Gullible : Easily tricked
 Credible : Worth Believing
 Incredible : Unbelievable
 Credo : Personal belief, Principles system
 Creed : credo : Religious believes
 Credenece : Belief
 Credentials : Doc Etc to prove a persons right to a title 
W. Specto (L) | To Look Spectacles,Spectator,
 Spectacular : Worth Watching
 Inspect : To Look Into
 Retrospect : A Backward look
W. Prospect | A forward look
W. Prospective | Soon to be
 Introspection : To look Inside ; To examine ones own thoughts ; ( Intro : Inside)
 Circumspect : To look around , Be cautious, alert
 Specious : Pseudo
Slightly variant spelling of specto - Spic  Conspicuous : Easily seen or looked at
 Perspicacious : per (through ) + Spic : Able to look through : Smart clever 
W. Perspicuous |  Easily understood from one look ; Such style , Book
 Ex : A perspicacious mind can very easily understand a perspicuous statement
 Noun of perspicacious : Perspicacity : Acumen : Mental Keenness ,Sharpness, Keen Insight
W. Acuo | To sharpenAcutute reasoning , acute pain etc
 Acupuncture : The insertion on a needle onto the nody for medical purpose
(Punctus : Point )
W. Punctus | Point  When one punctuates a sentence , He puts a punctuation.
 When You are punctual , You are right on the point of time .
 Punctilious : very careful behavior ;n. Punctiliousness
 To puncture in so put a hole
 Pungent small or take very sharp and spicy
W. Animus (L) |  Mind 

 Anima : Life principal , soul , Spirit  Magnanimous : Great and Generou ; Noble minds; Beyond seeking orety rvenges

W. Pusillanimous | Narrow Minded ; Mean ;( Pusillus : (L) : Tiny )
 Unianiomus : of one mind ( Unus : One )
 Equanimity : calmness if mind ; Composure 
 Animus - Animosity : Unfriendly mind; 
Unemotional Stoical - Stoicism n. - Not shaken , To meet adversity with unflinching fortitude( Courage )
W. Unflinching | To remain Strong and determined - Steadfast
W. Trepido (L) | To tremble Intrepid - n. intrepidity : Exhibiting great courage and fearlessness when confronting dangers
 Trepidation : Great fear ; Trembling ; Akarm
W. Scintilla ( L) | a quick and bright sparkScintilla : a spark ; A small amount
 Scintillating : witty and bright and humor
W. Urbs (L) |  City
W. Urban | Realtung to City

W. Rus (Ruris) | Country side
 Suburbs : Close to large City ( Sub : Near)
 Interurban : Between Cities ( Inter : Between )
 Intraurban : Within A city (Intra : Within
 Exurban: Outside it close to a large City 
 Rustic : Opp of urban ; Furniture made if rough hewn ( cut)wood ; Unsophisticated  person
 To rusticate : To spend time in the country side 
Pejorative  Derogatory ; Insulting

Norman Phenomenon and Occurrences
W. Penuria ( L) |  Need  Penurious; n.Penuary : Dire (Serious )Poverty ; Also Destitition ; Adj . Destitute
 Parsimonious n. parsimony : Unwilling to spend 
 Indigent n. indigence  : Very Poor
 Stingy - Niggardly : Referring to as much as needed , Not more
 Frugal - Meagre - Paltry : Mean ; Small Amounts 
W. Fluo ( L)  | To flow Affluent : Rich
W. Opulent | Very Rich n.Opulence
 Confluent : Combining into one 
 Fluent , Fluid - That flows ;
VicariousFeeling second hand but not experiening , 
W. Ephemera | (G) An Insect which lives for a short timeEuphemerality Adj.Ephemeral : Temporary ; Fleeting
Also Evanescent n. Evanescence v. To Evansce  ( Vanesco :(L)To Vanish)
Suffix - Esce:  To Begin to Adolescent- Beginning to grow up
Evansce - Beginning to vanish
Convalesce - Begining to Get well
Putrescent - Begining to rot
obscolent - Beginning to be useless
W. Eu |( G) : Good Euphemism  Substiting word for the one that sounds offending ( Pheme:Voice )
 Euphony : Great Sound
 Eulogy : Good speech , A funeral oration
 Euphoria : Good Feeling
 Euthansia : Good Death ( Thanatos (G)  : Death)
W. Modes of Expression  Badinage | Slight Teasing , Frivolous ( Silly and amusing) banter
W. Persiflage |  Slighly more derisive (unkind remark)than badinage
 Cliche : old and out of date usage
W. Hackneyed | used too many times and so boring
 Bromide : not original and deptied of Interest( A medical sedative )
Stlited Conversation is very formal
 W. Anodyne | a medical drug that allays( To make a feeling less stringer)  pain but w/ o Curing the illness's, Such false statement ( Odyne:(G) Pain)
 Platitude:( Platys : (G)Flat ): A flat statement , Unimaginative pattern of words
People - Animals Cow - Bovis : Bovine - patient , Calm, Unexcited also stupid and slow
W. Phlegmatic | Not easily angered
W. Lion | Leo  Leonine :Like one in appearance or in temperament
W. Dog | canis Canine - like or ref to dog
W. Cat | Felis Feline : cat like 
W. Pig | Porcus Porcine : Pig like
W. Pork | Pig meat
W. Fox | Vulpus Vulpine : Fox like in appearance or clever
W. Bear | Ursus Ursine : Bearlike 
W. Wolf | Lupus Lupine : wolf like
W. Equus | HorseEquine : Horse like
W. Piscis | FishPiscine - Fishlike

W. Phone | (G) : Sound Cacophony : Harsh and unpleasant sound 
W. Cacopsis or cacoptic | Unpleasant bro eyes
 Telephone : Sound from afar
 Phonograph : writer of sound
 Saxophone : A music instrument invevted BT Adolphe sax
 Xylophone : Xylon (G) : wood - A wooden musical instrument 
 Phonetics : the science if the sound  of the language 
 Phonics : The science of the sound 
W. Voro | To Devour - To eat quickly ; To look @ something with interest ; Also to destroy Carnivorous : Carnis : Flesh ; meat eating 
W. Herbivorous | Herbs (L) : Herbs : Eating vegetables only
W. Omnivorous | eating both
 Voracious : Devouring - Greedy and very Enthusiastic
W. Omnis | (L): All Omnipotent : All powerful
 Omniscient : Knowing Everything 
 Omnipresent : Present Everywhere 
W. Syn | Ubiquitous : ( Ubique: (L) : Everywhere)
 Omnibus

W. Carnis | Flesh  Carnelian :  A reddinsh Gem Stone 
 Carnival : exuberant Festival 
W. Exuberant | Full of energy and Excitement and  happiness
 Carnal : connected with the body or the sex
 Carnage : Destruction of life 
 Incarnation : In the Flesh ; To give bodily form to ; To Make real
W. Reincarnation | A rebirth or reappearance
W. Clam ( L) | Secretly Clandestine : Secrecy in the working our of a  dangerous plan
W. Surreptitious | Done secretly or quietly ( Of movements and actions )
W. Furtive | Behaving in a way that shows the want to keep something secret , Stealthy
W. Potens (L) | PowerfulPotentate : A Powerful Ruler
 Impotent: Powerless
 Potent : Powerful
 Potential : Possessing power
 Potentiate : To make More powerful
W. Ergon | (L)  workEnergy  : In + Work
 Synergy
 Enervate : ex ( Out) + Nervus : devitalization - Mental , Physical and emotional
 Barbituate : A powerful drug that makes you feel calm and relaxed and puta you to sleep
W. To punishCastigate | harsh and severe verbal Punishment, Like scold
 Rebuke : To Speak severely to sb as theyve done something bad, Syn : To reprimand, To berate ,Censure ( Public criticism)
 Rail at - Rant at : To complaint about something in an gray and loud noise
 Lash out on sb : To beat
W. Nego(L) | To denyNegate : To deny the truth or existence of
 Abnigate - To reject
 Self - Abnigate - self denial
W. Caput , Capitis | Head
  Capitulaum (L) : Little Head , The heading of chapterCaptain : Head of any group
 Capital : Head City
 Decapitualte : To Remove Head
 Recapitulate : To Go through Headings of the chapter again....or to Revise the summary of
 Capitualate to : To Agree to do something that one has been resisting to do ; Give in 

W. Simulo (L) | To Copy Simulate : To copy
W. Dissimulate | To Hide true feelings and pretend with opposite feelings
W. Syn | Dissemble , n.Dissemblance
W. Levis | (L) Light weight Levity : lack of seriousness when need ; Frivolity ; Flippancy
 Levitate : To Rise in the air without support
 Elevate : To Uplift, To rise
 Alleviate : Ad + Levis : To lighten ; To lessen
W. Miser | (L) wretched : Unhappy  Commiserate with : To con + Miser : To share somebody's feelings when they are unhappy
VacillateGoing back and forth in indecision 
W. Oscillate | To sway back and forth physically ( Oscillum(L) : A swing )
W. Ambivalence | Having simultaneous and conflicting emotions at the same time
W. Syn | ( G) ; Sym - Together  Synonym - namess that go together 
W. Sympathy | Feeling together
Synergy - working together
Symbiosis - Living together with helping each other
Synagogue -assemblage for religious worship
Symphony - harmony in different sounds of different instruments 
Symmetry - similarity of shape on booth sides 
W. Syndrome | dromos (G): Running  A group of symptoms that occur together in  certain disease
W. Hippodrome |  Hippo(G) : A Horse A place in ancient Greece where haorse and charois run..
W. Potamos |(L) : River : Hippopotamus 
W. Sequor (L) |  To followObsequious : To follow the orders given , Full of following After 
W. Menial | Not skilled and Important , Ordinarily paid
W. Courteous | polite and Respectful
W. subservient |too Willing to obey other people
Subsequent , Sequel , Sequence 
 W. Obsequies | Funeral Rites
W. Queror | (L): To complainQuerulous : Always Complaining
W. Harp on | To keep taking about something in a way that is boring 
W. Petulant | Unreasonable Behavior because of not getting the wanted  ; Syn : Brusque , Curt
W. Cilium |(L) - Eyelid 
W. Super | Above  
W. Supercilious | Felling to be better than other people
Also Contemptuous , Sneering , Scornful
W. Overbearing | Domineering : unkind control over others
W. Strepo ( L) | To make Noise  Obstreperous : To make Noise in a unmanageable and trouble some manner

W. Pecus |(L) CattleImpecunious : complete lack of money
W. Pecuniary | Pertaing to money
W. Cheval |(F) : Horse Chivalrous : chivalric :chivalry n. : kind behaviour towards women
W. Cavalcade | A procession of persons on horseback as in a parade
W. Procession | a lime of people or vehicles that move together in an event
W. Cavary | The mounted or horses part of an army
W. Cavalier | A cavalier was a mounted soldier, : behaving in a way that shows no caring for other peoples feelings
W. Offhand | Haughty : showing little respect to others believing ones superiority

W. Noceo ( L) | To Injure  Innocuous : Harmless
Innocent , Noxious 
Bibo ( L) - To drink Bibulous : Addicted to Alcohol

 Imbibe : To drink , Also To Imbibe something
 Bib : The uppar part the the apron
W. Cado(L) | To fallCadeveurous : Very weak, Looking like a corpse 
 Cadaver : A Corpse
 Decadent : De + Cado : Falling down : Deteriorating , Demoralizing
W. Doleo ( L) | To suffer or grieve Dolorous : Feeling or showing great sadness
 Dolour : A Pooetoc synonym of Greif
 Doleful : Humorous exaggeration to sadness
 Condole : con + Dole : to suffer or grief with 
W. Secutus | another form of Sequel Consecutive - following in proper order

 Persecute - To follow through and through , Hence to Annoy
 Prosecute - To follow before , Just hence to pursue diligently in order to complete it and
W. Cado  | To fall Cadence - Rise and fall in the voice while speaking 
 Occidnetal - Falling 
W. Orior ( L) |- Rise 

 To orient is to adjust to adjust to a place or situation
To disorient - To confuse or bewilder 
 Deciduous - Falling down( Refer to trees whose leave afll dwon every autumn )
 Incidence , Coincidence, 
Indolent Idle , Lazy or disliking effort or work

